Create operatingsystems-linux-ssh Monitoring proc V2 EN (#287)
centreon/centreon-documentation: en/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/operatingsystems-linux-ssh.md

---
id: operatingsystems-linux-snmp
title: Linux SSH
---

## Overview

Linux is a family of open source Unix-like operating systems based on the Linux kernel, an operating system kernel first released on September 17, 1991, by Linus Torvalds. 

## Plugin-Pack Assets

### Monitored Objects

> This Plugin-Pack provides assets to monitor all types of Linux based systems with a SSH server enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This Plugin-Pack provides assets to monitor all types of Linux based systems with a SSH server enabled:
```

* Centos 
* Redhat
* Debian
* Ubuntu
* Fedora
* ...

### Collected Metrics

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Cpu-->

| Metric name                        | Description                       |
| :--------------------------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| cpu.utilization.percentage         | CPU utilization. Unit : %         |
| core.cpu.utilization.percentage    | CPU utilization by core. Unit : % |

<!--Cpu Detailled-->

| Metric name           | Description                             |
| :-------------------- | :-------------------------------------- |
| cpu                   | Average usage for each CPUs. Unit : %   |

> | total_cpu             | Average total CPUs. Unit : %            |

Reviewer: Missing perfdata for cpu-detailed ?

Reviewer 2: Adding all perfdatas for cpu-detailed

| name                  | Time (modified, creation,...) of files/directories. Unit: s |

<!--Filessize-->

| Metric name           | Description                               |
| :-------------------- | :---------------------------------------- |
| name                  | Size of one file/directorie. Unit : B     |
| total                 | Total Size of files/directories. Unit : B |

<!--Diskio-->

| Metric name                            | Description                                                  |
| :------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| device.io.read.usage.bytespersecond    | Read IO usage in Bytes per second. Unit : B/s                |
| device.io.write.usage.bytespersecond   | Write IO usage in Bytes per second. Unit : B/s               |
| device.io.read.time.milliseconds       | Read time in milliseconds. Unit : ms                         |
| device.io.write.time.milliseconds      | Write time in milliseconds. Unit : ms                        |
| device.io.write.time.milliseconds      | Write time in milliseconds. Unit : ms                        |

> | device.io.utils.percentage             | IO utilization for different usage type of CPU. Unit : ms   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| device.io.utils.percentage             | IO utilization for different usage type of CPU. Unit : %   |
```

<!--Openfiles-->

| Metric name                 | Description                          |
| :-------------------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| system.files.open.count     | Number of files opened on the system |

<!--Swap-->

| Metric name                 | Description                       |
| :-------------------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| swap.usage.bytes            | Swap usage. Unit: B               |
| swap.free.bytes             | Swap free. Unit: B                |
| swap.usage.percentage       | Swap usage in percentage. Unit: % |

<!--Load-->

| Metric name                 | Description                           |
| :-------------------------- | :------------------------------------ |
| load1                       | Load average on 1 minute. Unit : %    |
| load5                       | Load average on 5 minutes. Unit : %   |

> | load15                      | Load average on 15 minutes. Unit : %  |

Reviewer: The load is not a percentage ;-)

Reviewer 2: Done ^^

<!--Process-->

| Metric name                 | Description                        |
| :-------------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| nbproc                      |  Number of current processes.      |

<!--Ntp-->

| Metric name           | Description                        |
| :-------------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| offset                | Offset of ntpd service. Unit : ms  |

<!--Quota-->

| Metric name           | Description                         |
| :-------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| data_used             | Quota usage on partitions. Unit : B |

<!--Storage-->

| Metric name           | Description              |
| :-------------------- | :----------------------- |
| used                  | Storage usages. Unit : B |

<!--Traffic-->

| Metric name                         | Description                                                      |
| :---------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------- |
| status                              | Status of the interface                                          |

> | interface.traffic.in.bitspersecond  | Incoming traffic going through the interface. Units: B/s & %     |
> | interface.traffic.out.bitspersecond | Outgoing traffic going through the interface. Units: B/s & %     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| interface.traffic.in.bitspersecond  | Incoming traffic going through the interface. Units: B/s     |
| interface.traffic.out.bitspersecond | Outgoing traffic going through the interface. Units: B/s    |
```

Reviewer 2: done

|             | SSHEXTRAOPTIONS | Customize it with your own if needed. E.g.: ```--ssh-priv-key=/user/.ssh/id_rsa```          |

With that backend, you don't have to validate the target server fingerprint manually.

## FAQ

### How to check in the CLI that the configuration is OK and what are the main options for ?

Once the Plugin installed, log into your poller using the *centreon-engine* user account and test by running the following command (Parameters such as ```ssh-username``` or ```ssh-password```have to be adjusted):

```bash
 /usr/lib/centreon/plugins//centreon_linux_ssh.pl \
    --plugin=os::linux::local::plugin \
	--mode=cpu \
	--hostname='myipaddress' \
	--ssh-backend='libssh' \
	--ssh-username='myuser' \
	--ssh-password='mypassword' \
	--ssh-port='22' \
	--warning-core='60' \
	--critical-core='70' \
	--warning-average='60' \
	--critical-average='75' \
	--verbose \
	--use-new-perfdata
	
	
OK: CPU(s) average usage is 11.91 % - CPU '0' usage : 11.91 % |
'cpu.utilization.percentage'=11.91%;;;0;100 '0#core.cpu.utilization.percentage'=11.91%;;;0;100 
CPU '0' usage : 11.91 %
```

> The command above gets the average of a Linux SSH CPU (```--mode=CPU```).

Reviewer: Maybe a better explanation of the SSH options.

Reviewer 2: Adding explanation in below lines

With that backend, you don't have to validate the target server fingerprint manually.

## FAQ

### How to check in the CLI that the configuration is OK and what are the main options for ?

Once the Plugin installed, log into your poller using the *centreon-engine* user account and test by running the following command :

```bash
 /usr/lib/centreon/plugins//centreon_linux_ssh.pl \
    --plugin=os::linux::local::plugin \
    --mode=cpu \
    --hostname='10.30.2.114' \
    --ssh-backend='libssh' \
    --ssh-username='myuser' \
    --ssh-password='mypassword' \
    --ssh-port='22' \
    --warning-core='60' \
    --critical-core='70' \
    --warning-average='60' \
    --critical-average='75' \
    --verbose \
    --use-new-perfdata
		
OK: CPU(s) average usage is 11.91 % - CPU '0' usage : 11.91 % |
'cpu.utilization.percentage'=11.91%;;;0;100 '0#core.cpu.utilization.percentage'=11.91%;;;0;100 
CPU '0' usage : 11.91 %
```

The check command gives the average CPU of a device using SSH (```--mode=CPU```) 
It has IP address 10.30.2.114 (```--hostname=10.30.2.114```) as backend (```--ssh-backend='libssh'```) with the centeron as username _centreon_ (```--ssh-username=centreon```) 

> and as password _centreon-password_ (```--ssh-password='centreon-password'```). 

Reviewer: Could you reformulate ?

 1. Set the SSH account name
 2. Set the SSH port (default: 22)
 3. Set the account password
 4. Then save the configuration
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/44295022/89532540-39ccc500-d7f2-11ea-82cb-ad974adaccd2.png)

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Installation

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Online IMP Licence & IT-100 Editions-->

1. Install the Centreon Plugin on every poller monitoring Linux SSH resources:

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Operatingsystems-Linux-Ssh.noarch
```

2. On the Centreon Web interface in "Configuration > Plugin packs > Manager", install the *Linux SSH* Plugin-Pack

<!--Offline IMP License-->

1. Install the Centreon Plugin on every poller monitoring Linux SSH resources:

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Operatingsystems-Linux-Ssh.noarch
```

2. On the Centreon Central server, install the Centreon Plugin-Pack from the RPM:

```bash
yum install centreon-pack-operatingsystems-linux-ssh.noarch
```

3. On the Centreon Web interface in "Configuration > Plugin packs > Manager", install the *Linux SSH* Plugin-Pack

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Configuration

> Adding a new host into Centreon, apply the relevant host template matching your instance/cluster type. All of the host templates begin with *Os-Linux-SSH-custom*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Add a new Host and apply the Os-Linux-SSH-custom Host Template. 
```

|             | SSHEXTRAOPTIONS | Customize it with your own if needed. E.g.: ```--ssh-priv-key=/user/.ssh/id_rsa```          |

**Warning** With that backend, you have to validate the target server fingerprint manually (with the SSHUSERNAME used).

### libssh backend (by default)

| Mandatory   | Name            | Description                                                                                 |
| :---------- | :-------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| X           | SSHBACKEND      | Name of the backend: ```libssh```                                                           |
| X           | SSHUSERNAME     | By default, it uses the user running process ```centengine``` on your poller                |
|             | SSHPASSWORD     | Can be used. If not set, SSH key authentication is used                                     |
|             | SSHPORT         | By default: 22                                                                              |
|             | SSHEXTRAOPTIONS | Customize it with your own if needed. E.g.: ```--ssh-priv-key=/user/.ssh/id_rsa```          |

> With that backend, you don't have to validate the target server fingerprint manually. Nice ;)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With that backend, you don't have to validate the target server fingerprint manually.
```

## FAQ

### How to check in the CLI that the configuration is OK and what are the main options for ?

Once the Plugin installed, log into your poller using the *centreon-engine* user account and test by running the following command (Parameters such as ```ssh-username``` or ```ssh-password```have to be adjusted):

```bash
 /usr/lib/centreon/plugins//centreon_linux_ssh.pl \
    --plugin=os::linux::local::plugin \
	--mode=cpu \
	--hostname='myipaddress' \
	--ssh-backend='libssh' \
	--ssh-username='myuser' \
	--ssh-password='mypassword' \
	--ssh-port='22' \
	--warning-core='60' \
	--critical-core='70' \
	--warning-average='60' \
	--critical-average='75' \
	--verbose \
	--use-new-perfdata
	
	
OK: CPU(s) average usage is 11.91 % - CPU '0' usage : 11.91 % |
'cpu.utilization.percentage'=11.91%;;;0;100 '0#core.cpu.utilization.percentage'=11.91%;;;0;100 
CPU '0' usage : 11.91 %
```

The command above gets the average of a Linux SSH CPU (```--mode=CPU```).

> This command will trigger a WARNING alarm if the CPU Average increases to more than 60% (```--warning-average='60'``)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will trigger a WARNING alarm if the CPU Average increases to more than 60% (```--warning-average='60'```)
```
